# Lab 2: Dan Matthews & Erik Eakins

##Question 1: Grammars - Synthetic Examples

### (a) Consider the following grammar:

	A ::= A & A | V
	V ::= a | b

Recall that a grammar defines inductively a set of syntactic objects 
(i.e. a language).  We can also use judgements to define a language.
For this exercise, rewrite this grammar using the following two judgment forms:

A ∈ AObjects meaning Syntactic object A is in the set AObjects.
<br>V ∈ VObjects meaning Syntactic object V is in the set VObjects.

						 V ∈ VObjects	 
	-------------- 	=>	-------------	
	a,b ∈ VObjects	   S(v) ∈ VObjects

						V ∈ AObjects	    A ∈ AObjects
	--------------  =>  ------------- =>  ------------
	V ∈ VObjects		  V ∈ VObjects	  S(A) ∈ AObjects

	  A & A   			S(A) & S(A)  	  V & V 		S(v) & S(V)
	-----------  =>     -----------  => ----------  =>  -----------
	S(A) & S(A)           V & V  		S(V) & S(V)     a,b & a,b

###(b) Show that the grammar in the previous part 1 is ambiguous

	If we want a result of b & b & b, there is more than one answer:
		A => A &   A  						A =>   A   & A
			 |     |							   |     |
			 A & A & A => A & A & V  			 A & A & A =>  V & A & A
			 		  	  |   |   |					           |   |   |	
			 		      A & A & b => A & V & b	 		   b & A & A => b & V & A	
			 		      			   |   |   |							|   |   |
			 		      			   A & b & b => V & b & b   			b & b & A => b & b & V
			 		      			   				|   |   |                            |   |   |
			 		      			   				b & b & b               			 b & b & b
	Since there is not ONE specific way to find an answer, the grammar
	is defined as ambiguous

###(c) Describe the language defined by the following grammar:
	
S ::= A | B | C

A ::= aA | a

B ::= bB | ε

C ::= cC | c
	
	L(g)::= {a*n , b*m , c*n : n>0 , m>=0} 

### (d) Consider the following grammar:

	S ::= AaBb
	A ::= Ab | b
	B ::= aB | a

Which of the following sentences are in the language generated by this
grammar? For the sentences that are described by this grammar, demonstrate
that they are by giving derivations.

1) baab<br>
2) bbbab<br>
3) bbaaaaaa<br>
4) bbaab<br>

	Only sentences 1 and 4 are in the language generated by this grammar.
	baab: S => AaBb => baBb => baab
	bbaab: S => AaBb => AbaBb => bbaBb => bbaab

### (e) Consider the following grammar:

	S ::= aScB | A | b
	A ::= cA | c
	B ::= d | A

which of the following sentences are in the language generated by this grammar?
For the sentences that are described by this grammar, demonstrate that
they are by giving parse trees.

1) abcd <br>
2) acccbd <br>
3) acccbcc <br>
4) acd <br>
5) accc <br>

	Only sentences 1 and 5 are in the language generated by this grammar.

	abcd
					
					S
				/  / \  \
			    a  S  c  B
			       |     |
			       b     d
	accc
					
					S
				/  / \  \
				a  S  c  B
				   |     |
				   A     A
				   |     |
				   c     c


