# Lab 2: Dan Matthews & Erik Eakins

##Question 1: Grammars - Synthetic Examples

### (a) Consider the following grammar:

	A ::= A & A | V
	V ::= a | b

Recall that a grammar defines inductively a set of syntactic objects 
(i.e. a language).  We can also use judgements to define a language.
For this exercise, rewrite this grammar using the following two judgment forms:

A ∈ AObjects meaning Syntactic object A is in the set AObjects.
<br>V ∈ VObjects meaning Syntactic object V is in the set VObjects.

							 
	1)	-------------		-------------
		a ∈ VObjects   		b ∈ VObjects

		s1 ∈ AObjects     s2 ∈ AObjects		s ∈ VObjects
	2)  -------------------------------		------------
			  s1 & s2 ∈ AObjects			s ∈ AObjects


###(b) Show that the grammar in the previous part 1 is ambiguous

	If we want a result of b & b & b, there is more than one answer:
		A => A &   A  						A =>   A   & A
			 |     |							   |     |
			 A & A & A => A & A & V  			 A & A & A =>  V & A & A
			 		  	  |   |   |					           |   |   |	
			 		      A & A & b => A & V & b	 		   b & A & A => b & V & A	
			 		      			   |   |   |							|   |   |
			 		      			   A & b & b => V & b & b   			b & b & A => b & b & V
			 		      			   				|   |   |                            |   |   |
			 		      			   				b & b & b               			 b & b & b
	Since there is not ONE specific way to find an answer, the grammar
	is defined as ambiguous

###(c) Describe the language defined by the following grammar:
	
S ::= A | B | C

A ::= aA | a

B ::= bB | ε

C ::= cC | c
	
	L(g)::= {a*n , b*n , c*n : n>=0} 

### (d) Consider the following grammar:

	S ::= AaBb
	A ::= Ab | b
	B ::= aB | a

Which of the following sentences are in the language generated by this
grammar? For the sentences that are described by this grammar, demonstrate
that they are by giving derivations.

1) baab<br>
2) bbbab<br>
3) bbaaaaaa<br>
4) bbaab<br>

	Only sentences 1 and 4 are in the language generated by this grammar.
	baab: S => AaBb => baBb => baab
	bbaab: S => AaBb => AbaBb => bbaBb => bbaab

### (e) Consider the following grammar:

	S ::= aScB | A | b
	A ::= cA | c
	B ::= d | A

which of the following sentences are in the language generated by this grammar?
For the sentences that are described by this grammar, demonstrate that
they are by giving parse trees.

1) abcd <br>
2) acccbd <br>
3) acccbcc <br>
4) acd <br>
5) accc <br>

	Only sentences 1 and 5 are in the language generated by this grammar.

	abcd
					
					S
				/  / \  \
			    a  S  c  B
			       |     |
			       b     d
	accc
					
					S
				/  / \  \
				a  S  c  B
				   |     |
				   A     A
				   |     |
				   c     c

##Question 2: Grammars - Understanding a Language

###(a) Consider the following two grammars for expressions e.  In both grammars, ''operator''and ''operand'' are the same; you do not need to know their productions for this questions:

	e ::= operand | e operator operand

	e ::= operand esuffix
	esuffix ::= operator operand esuffix | ε

i) Intuitively describe the expressions generated by the two grammars.
	
	The first grammar is left associative because the recursive non-terminal
	symbol is on the left of the parse tree.

	The 2nd grammar is right associative because the recursive non-terminal
	symbol is on the right of the parse tree.

ii) Do these grammars generate the same or different expressions? Explain
	
	The two grammars do produce the same expression, one by right associative 
	and the other by left associative.  The results will be in a combination of:
	operand operator operand operator ... operand
	The difference is determined by if it adds an operand to the left or right

###(b) Write a Scala expression to determine if - has higher precedence than << or vice versa.

	Example: 4 - 1 << 3 
	
	val exp = 4 - 1 << 3
	val minus = (4 - 1) << 3
	val shift = 4 - (1 << 3)
	if (exp == minus)
		println("- has higher precedence over <<")
	if (exp == shift)
		println("<< has higher precendence over -")

	After using the scala interpreter, we discover the - has higher precedence
	over <<.  By using the expression, 4 - 1 << 3, the result was 24.  We compare 
	that answer to (4 - 1) << 3 and 4 - (1 << 3).  (4 - 1) << 3 is 24 while 
	4 - (1 << 3) is -4. Therefore, this shows us that - has higher precedence 
	over <<.  This is interesting because of the fact that << is also the same
	as multiplying by base 2.

###(c) Give a BNF grammar for floating point numbers that are made up of a fraction followed by an optional exponent.  The exponenet if it exists, is the letter 'E' followed by an integer.  Floating point numbers must have a decimal, no leading zeros, non-zero exponents (if it exists), must have non-zero fraction to have an exponent, and cannot have a '-' in front of a zero number.  The exponent cannot have leading zeros.

	frac ::= -n.n|n.n|z.n|-z.n|-n.z|n.z|Exp|z.z
	Exp ::= z.nEn|-z.nEn|n.nEn|-n.nEn|n.zEn|-n.zEn
	z ::= 0
	n ::= 1|2|3|4|5|6|...|infinity
